Questions:

1. You have a file with permissions -rw-r--r--, and you run chmod +x file.sh. What happens?
    Execute (x) permission is added for owner, group, and others.


2. What is the difference between chmod 744 file.txt and chmod u=rwx,go=r file.txt?
    Both of them set the same permissions for file.txt which is
        - Owner : All ( Read, Write, Execute )
        - Group : Read
        - Others: Read


3. What is the sticky bit, and when should you use it?
    It is a special permission which allows only the owner of the file to delete its content in a directory shared by others.
    eg: chmod +t /dir


4. You are told to give the owner full access, group only execute, and others no permissions. What symbolic command achieves this?
    chmod 710


5. What is umask, and why is it important?
    umask is used to set default permission bits for files and directories, it prevents files / directories from being created with unexpected permissions.


6. If the umask is 022, what are the default permissions for a new file and a new directory?
    The changed permissions after umask is calculated using subtraction as follows, 
        - Default permission for directories: 777
            umask = 022, then final permission = 777 - 022 = 755

        - Default permissions for files: 666
            umask = 022, then final permission = 666 - 022 = 644


7. Why is umask often set to 002 in development environments but 027 or 077 in production?
    In development environments, umask is set to 002 to allow group members to read and write files for better collaboration. 
    In production, umask is set to 027 or 077 to enhance security by limiting access to files and directories, ensuring that only the owner or specific groups can access them.


8. useradd vs adduser
    useradd is a basic, low-level command for creating a new user account. It does not perform extra setup by default.
    adduser is a more user-friendly, higher-level command that guides you through the process and automatically sets up things like the user's home directory, group, and initial configuration.